# Remote Managemnet Tools

## For Linux

### Tool 1 : SSH

#### SSH login using a private key (Public Key Auth)

```bash
chmod 400 id_rsa    
#Private key should be readable only to the owner.

# NOTE: id_rsa is usually present in ~/.ssh

ssh username@10.10.0.1 -i id_rsa
```

#### Command for SSH Key pair generation 

```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096
```

#### Command for pushing the public key to a remote server

```bash
ssh-copy-id user@<IP>
```

#### <u>Important Tips:</u>

- If you stumble upon a private key file (commonly named as id_rsa), you can figure out to which user the key belongs to by **base64 decoding** the last two or three lines of the private key (just before the delimiter *"-----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----"*). This **will reveal the details of the user and hostname** of the machine on which the key was generated.

- Public keys on a remote SSH server for a user are stored in the file `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`. You can also append your key to the file by running the command `echo "<PUBLIC-KEY>" >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys` on the remote server. 


#### Appending an algo to the list of Host Key Algorithms used by SSH

```bash
ssh username@10.10.5.198 -p 2222 -oHostKeyAlgorithms=+ssh-rsa
```


#### SSH Local Port Forwarding

```bash
ssh -L 5566:127.0.0.1:10000 agent47@10.10.67.67

# 5566 is a local port

sudo ssh -L 0.0.0.0:80:172.20.128.2:80 entry@10.10.109.140

# sudo is needed to bind to the local port 80
```

## For Windows

### Tool 1 : Evil-WinRM

Useful to obtain a shell when `WinRM` is running on **port 5985** (or **port 5986** for HTTPS) of the target Windows machine.

```bash
evil-winrm -i <IP> -u <USERNAME>
```

### Tool 2 : Impacket smbexec

Can be used to obtain a **pseudo-shell** (a non-interactive shell) of the Windows target if SMB is available.

```bash
impacket-smbexec <USERNAME>:'<PASSWORD>'@<IP>
```
> *Supports many other authentication methods like NTLM hash etc.*

#### <u>Important Tips:</u>

- Always **try to specify the password within quotes**. This specifically helps when the password has special characters like `@` which might otherwise break the command.

- `smbexec` does not leave behind a malicious binary on the system as it **creates a new service for every command that has to be executed** and the command's output file is fetched via SMB. 
    
    Therefore, the resulting shell is a pseudo-shell and **only stand-alone commands can be executed**. For e.g., commands like `cd` to change directory won't work as there is **no context available between the consecutive services** created for executing the consecutive commands. 

- But the tool is not very stealthy. **It does produce events** in the logs such as the `System` Logs (during service installation), etc.

> *For further reading, check out:*
> - https://book.hacktricks.xyz/windows-hardening/lateral-movement/smbexec
> - https://blog.ropnop.com/using-credentials-to-own-windows-boxes-part-2-psexec-and-services/#smbexec


### Tool 3 : Impacket wmiexec

Utlizes WMI and DCOM to provide the needed shell. 

```bash
impacket-wmiexec <USERNAME>@<IP> -hashes "<NTLM-HASH>"

# The format for an NTLM hash is LMHASH:NTHASH.
```

> *Supports many other authentication methods like Password etc.*

#### <u>Important Tips:</u>

- Since WMI is involved, a random port is utilized for the communication which is chosen during the initial connection to DCOM/RPC service running on port 135. Therefore, **the ports involved should be unfiltered** for the tool to work.

- Unlike `smbexec`, no service installation is carried out to execute the command provided. But **the tool can still leave behind events like Event ID 4688** in the target's Security Event Log, if the needed settings have been set *(using the Local Group Policy Editor)* in the target system.

> *For further reading, check out:*
> - https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/how-to-detect-and-prevent-impackets-wmiexec/



