# Memory Analysis

## Tool 1: Volatility

### Profile Determination

- Until version 2 of Volatility, the first step was to **determine the profile** to be used for the analysis of the supplied memory dump. A profile basically contained the details about the memory layout for a specific OS version and architecture. 

- There were two ways for determining the profile to be used for the analysis of the memory dump:

```bash
python2 /opt/volatility/vol.py imageinfo -f <mem-dump-file>
```
- `imageinfo` suggested the profiles that the supplied memory dump could be based of.

```bash
python2 /opt/volatility/vol.py kdbgscan -f <mem-dump-file>
```

- `kdbgscan` aimed to provide more accurate determination of the target's profile.

- **But with version 3, the concept of profiles has been removed** as it has access to a library of `symbol tables` and also has the ability to generated new ones based on the supplied memory image itself (for most Windows memory images).

***NOTE:** A symbol table is a data structure that maps memory addresses to human-readable names of functions, variables, etc..* 

### Commonly carried out tasks in Memory Aanalysis

#### Listing Processes

```bash
# Version 2
python2 /opt/volatility/vol.py --profile=<profile> -f <mem-dump-file> pslist

python2 /opt/volatility/vol.py --profile=<profile> -f <mem-dump-file> psscan

# Version 3
python3 vol.py -f <mem-dump-file> windows.pslist.PsList

python3 vol.py -f <mem-dump-file> windows.psscan.PsScan
```

> **NOTE : *"scan"* plugins are better than *"list"* plugins** when it comes to analyzing memory dumps that could contain the activity of malicious processes. 
>
> This is because **the former employs scanning techniques across the entire memory dump** to detect elements of interest while **the latter employs a more traditional approach of looking at known locations** within a dump that are known to contain specific elements of interest. So the latter's approach may be **vulnerable to a malware's evasion technique**.

#### Determining the executed commands

```bash
# Version 2
python2 /opt/volatility/vol.py --profile=<profile> -f <mem-dump-file> cmdline

# Version 3
python3 vol.py -f <mem-dump-file> windows.cmdline.CmdLine
```
> **NOTE :** Also, very helpful in determining the paths of the executables that were ran.


#### And a ton of other features such as

- Dumping the executable and DLLs of a specific process.

- Printing registry keys' values from memory. Very useful to check for keys such as `SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run` to see if any startup programs have been specified (a commonly used persistence method)

- etc.

<br />

> *For further reading, check out:*
> - https://book.hacktricks.xyz/generic-methodologies-and-resources/basic-forensic-methodology/memory-dump-analysis/volatility-cheatsheet
> - https://volatility3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/vol2to3.html#changes-between-volatility-2-and-volatility-3
> - https://siunam321.github.io/ctf/CrewCTF-2023/Forensics/Attaaaaack1-13/